# Forms and JS Events

## 03.18.21

----

## Forms, 7

Forms are for information. You make them to get input from the user. This can be in the form of a button, checkbox,
drop-down, single line text, password input, area text, or submission buttons and boxes.

### use cases

- Single line entry for emails or usernames

- Hidden entry for passwords

- Area text boxes for comments, messages, essay questions

- Radio buttons for single choice answers

- Checkboxes for multiple choice

- Drop-down box for picking a single option out of many

- Submit buttons for... submitting

- File upload for uploading files

### making a form

````HTML
<form id="cookieStand-form" action='url to server' method='get or post'>
    <fieldset>
        <legend>Add a new cookie stand</legend>

        <label for=""> Location
            <input name="location" type="text">
        </label>

        <label for=""> Minimum customers per hour
            <input name="minCustomers" type="number">
        </label>

        <label for=""> Maximum customers per hour
            <input name="maxCustomers" type="number">
        </label>

        <label for=""> Average sales
            <input name="avgSales" type="number">
        </label>

        <button type="submit">Submit</button>
    </fieldset>
</form>
````

What's going on here is that we made a form titled Add a new cookie stand with 5 inputs; one for text, another three for numbers, and a submit button. Each input is labeled, and it's input type is specified: text, number, number, number, submit.

HTML can also handle some form validation by itself, the code above willl reject an input if it's not a number. That being said, it won't return numbers but numbers of type string. In general if it comes from an html element, or going in for that matter, the type will most likely be string. That's just something I've noticed, so maybe it's not 100% right.

----

## Lists, Tables and Forms

This chapter is about styling lists, tables and forms.

### Image bullet points

````CSS

ul {
    list-style-image: url('path to file')
}

````

On tables you can create rules to hide empty cells:

````CSS {
    table {
        empty-cells: hide;
    }
}
````

Note: it's good practice to add empty elements even if there isn't data to fill them with.

The :focus psuedo class changes the rules when an element is in use. The following example will change the color of a text box while in use:

````CSS
input:focus {
    background-color: black;
    color: white;
}
````

I also really wanted to remember the rule for changing the cursor, 'cause... you know.... There's nine options, auto, crosshair, default, pointer, move, text, wait, help, and url('pathToFile').

````CSS
body {
    cursor: url('path to file');
}
````

----

## Events

Here's a list of a bunch of events:

### UI events

- load

- unload

- error
        - Browser encounters a JS error

- resize

- scroll

----

### Keyboard events

- keydown

- keyup

- keypress

----

### Mouse events

- click

- dblclick

- mousedown

- mouseup

- mouseoover

- mouseout

----

### Focus events

- focus / focusin

- blur / focusout

----

### Form events

- input

- change

- reset

- cut

- copy

- paste

- select

----

### Mutation events

- DOMSubtreeModified

- DOMNodeInserted

- DOMNodeRemoved

- DOMNodeInsertedIntoDocument

- DOMNodeRemovedFromDocument

----

### Some terminology

An event is either *rasied* or *fired* and is *trigger* scripts. Inputs are *gestures* and right clicking is called *context clicking*. Attaching code to an event is called *binding*.