# Images, Color, Text

## 03.12.21

----

## Images, 5

You can use stock images to give the user more information about the site's contents and purpose. There's a bunch of sites for stock images, and you can store any images you get in a local folder.

All there really is to know about images is their formats and dimensions. The main formats are GIF, PNG, and JPG. All you need to know about that is that. JPGs aren't transparent and compress in ways you never want. GIF can be animated, but also can be a massive file.

Oh I almost forgot about SVGs. They're the best. You can make 'em really big, because they're not fixed to their dimensions. SVG is just equations.

----

## Color, 11

[For more imformation refer to these notes](design-pages.md)

One of the more important things to know is that when choosing a background color, you want to create a good level of contrast. This way users will be able to read the site's content better.

You can assign color with css and in a bunch of different formats.

````CSS
p.1 {
    color: hsl(0, 100%, 50%);
    backrgound-color:rgb(255, 0, 0);
}

p.2 {
    color: ##ff0000;
    background-color: red;
}
````

----

## Text, 12

Picking and styling the text of a website is really important. You can do it like this:

````CSS
p.1 {
    font-family: fonts;
}
````

There's serif fonts, sans-serif fonts, mono-space too. You can make the text italic, which is more *italic*, have different weights, make it streched or condensed.

There's not much really to say about fonts. Either their readable or for display. Picking the right one isn't easy, but there's a lot of options.

When deciding on sizing, it makes a lot of sense to use ems or rems. They offer a lot of flexibility. Rems are based on the font size set in the root, and ems are based on the parent

----

Png and gif have lossless compression, while jpg has lossy compression. You can only compress a jpg so many times before it falls apart.

Use jpg for natural scenes and large photographs. It holds up at high levels of compression and is less noticable on images with smooth transitions.

Use png for logos and anything that need sharp edges. Because png is lossless, it can be higher resolution and sharper at smaller sizes. In general, however, it leads to larger file sizes. No to mention it also supports transperancy.

Gif is the only file formatt to support animation. Use it for that and only that.