# Debugging, 10

## 3.18.21

----

Follow the trail; every script has an order of operation, or execution, so the error must be along the way. You'll hit it if you're through

Hoisting and execution contexts, the process is prepare then execute. The scope must be established before a script can execute. If something is undefined in a scope, then the code won't execute. *Hoisting* is where you call code before the function is declared or assigned.

### Error objects

An error object has 4 properties name, message, fileNumber, and lineNumber. Name repersents the type of error; message describes it, and line and file number tell you where to look.

### Workflow

Start by locating where the problem should be, then break it down into steps and tasks. Keep notes as you go, like a map to follow. If you get really stuck, try explaining it. What's important to remember is that the computer has to work logically, so it's thoughts are very linear. Where problems start happening is with user instructions; not all the time, but these are the worst bugs. You don't get errors, because the code is working... just not how it *should* work.

### Console methods

In addition to console.log, there is also warn, info, and error methods:

````JS
// Just prints
console.log('Hello');

// used for general info
console.info('general info');

// for warnings
console.warn('warning');

// hold errors
console.error('');
````

You can even group the logs with a console.group().

````JS
console.group('title');
    console.info('this', that);
    console.info('here' there);
    console.log(someVariable);
console.groupEnd();
````

### Using the console

For break points in chrome, go to sources, then script, then find the line, then the code will stop on the line you've selected.