# HTML Lists, Control Flow with JS, and the CSS Box Model

## Reading notes from 3.10.21

----

## Lists, 3

In HTML5 there are three main types of lists ordered lists (with numbers), unordered lists (think bullets), and definition lists (words and their definitions). They also support nesting.

````HTML
<ol>
    <li>im an ordered list</li>
</ol>

<ul>
    <li> im and unordered list <li>
<ul>

<dl>
    <dt>im a definition term</dt>
    <dd>im the definition</dd>
<dl>
````

----

## Boxes, 13

By default each element is treated as having it's own box: margin, border, padding, content. You can change this with the width and height rules. This is pretty self-explanatory.

````CSS
h1 {
    height: 300px;
    width: 300px;
}
````

You can also set minimums for height and width, which is useful for keeping things legible as the browser changes. You can even do maximums too.

````CSS
.imBox {
    min-height: 100px;
    min-width: 100px;
    max-height: 300px;
}
````

If the box that holds the contents is too small, the content will overflow. For that you have an overflow rule:

````CSS
p.1 {
    overflow: hidden;
}

p.2 {
    overflow: scroll;
}
````

One will hide the contents and the other will add a scroll bar for anything that's cut off.

Every box has margins, padding, and borders that can be changed. Margins are between each of the individual elements on the page. Padding is the space between the children and border, and borders are the edges between boxes.

### On borders

Like margins and padding, borders are broken down into top, bottom, left and right. Each side can have different thicknesses and color. In this order it goes top, right, bottom, left... *clockwise*. Check this out:

````CSS
p.1 {
    border: solid black 2pt;
}

p.2 {
    border-color: red orange white black;
}

p.3 {
    border-width: 2px, 4px, 8px, 16px;
}
````

Remember it goes *clockwise*: top, right, bottom, left. This is key.

### Display types

Using none display type hides the element from the page. this is different from changing the visibility, which leaves the space there. 

### Border images

This rule takes an image and splits it up nine ways. It takes a url, location for the slice, and what to do with the straight edges. Take a look:

````CSS
p.1 {
    -moz-border-image: url("someURL")
        11 11 11 11 stretch;
    -webkit-border-image: url("someURL")
        11 11 11 11 stretch;
    border-image: url("someURL") 
        11 11 11 11 stretch;
}
````

"-webkit-border-image" and "-moz-border-image" are for compatability between older browsers. 

In addition to 'stretch' there is also 'round' and 'repeat'.

### Box shadows

Really obvious, it takes  inset, horizontal offset, vertical offset, blur distance, spread and color *in that order*. Inset is the only weird one. It means the the shadow will appear on the inside.

````CSS
p.1{
    -moz-box-shadow: inset -5px -5px 5px 5px black;
    -webkit-box-shadow: inset -5px -5px 5px 5px black;
    box-shadow: inset -5px -5px 5px 5px black;
}
````

----

## (review) Basic JavaScript Instructions, 2

I think I got this stuff, so I just skimmed it.

You can declare multiple variables on one line of code, then assign them values later:

````JS
let quantity, price, total;

quantity = 5;
price = 5;
total = price * quantity;
````

An index of an array starts at 0 not 1.

## Decisions and Loops (from switch statements on), 4

Conditionals (those if/else pairs and switchs) work like this. If something is met, run this block of code.

````JS
for(let i=0; i<10; i++) {
    if(i > 2) {
        console.log('im more than 2');
    } else if (i > 2 && i < 5) {
        console.log('im between 2 and 5');
    } else if (i > 5) {
        console.log('im more than 5');
    }
}
````

Write the most general statements first and the most specific last. This way you have the highest chance of executing all the code. Think about it like this; if i is going up by 1, it'll be larger than 2 before it's larger than 5, so you have the smaller number first. And then you know it will be bigger than 2 and smaller than 5 before it's bigger than 5, so that comes next. Finally, the last statement goes. This way all the code is run in a smooth flow, rather than waiting for i to hit 5 before running anything else for instance.

If you have more than 3 if/else statements, it's a good idea to use a switch instead:

````JS
let expr = 'some string';
switch(expr) {
    case 'hello':
        console.log('im a greeting');
        break;
    case 'goodbye':
        console.log('im a farewell');
        break;
    case 'how do you do':
        console.log('im a salutation');
        break;
    case 'ouch':
        console.log('im an exclamation');
        break;
    case 'that really hurt':
        console.log('im a statement'):
        break;
    default: 
        console.log('hopefully, im any string');
        break;
}
````

### short circuit values

Logical operators operate left to write, and they output whichever value stops them. This means you should put code most likely to return true first. That waye everything will get parsed...

### further notice

For any notes on loops refer to [Operators and Loops](../code102/code102-08.md)