# Local Storage

## 03.24.21

----

What is runtime state? INI files, xml files

Cookies provide opportunities for local storage, but they're small, slow down your applications, and are security hazards. Each cookie is limited to the size of 4kb, is unencrypted, and included in *every* HTTP request. 

During the first browser wars, internet explorer added the ability to store 60-100kb of userdata locally in what was called DHTML. Things progressed with Flash and storage increased. But neither of these solutions to the problem of hosting data locally were reliant on specific browsers and plugins (like flash). There was no unified practice.

### HTML5 Storage

Web Storage, alternatively called "local storage" or "Dom storage", created a unified way of doing local storage. 

### How data is stored

data is stored int key/value pairs. The key being a string and the data being any type supported by javascript. 

> "If you are storing anything ofther than strings you will need to use functions like **parseInt()** or **parseFloat()** to coerce your retrieved data into the expexted JavaScript datatype"

````JS
function setOrders() {
    // [{"name":"Anon","size":"8","milk":"oat","drinkType":"Americano"}]
    let stringifiedOrders = JSON.stringify(Order.orders);

    //setItems to storage with key order
    localStorage.setItem('order', stringifiedOrders);
}
````

The above code snippet turns an array of objects into one long string, and then sets it to local storage with the key 'order'. You can then use this key to get the items out of local storage later.

````JS
function getOrders() {
    //check localStorage for orders
    let storedOrders = localStorage.getItem('order');

    //parse orders
    if (storedOrders !== null) {
        let parsedOrders = JSON.parse(storedOrders); //transpile stringified order into js

        //create new Order from storage
        for (let order of parsedOrders) {
            new Order(order.name, order.size, order.milk, order.drinkType);
        }
    }
}
````

Here we use localStorage.getItem('order') to retrieve the data that we set to local storage in the previous snippet. We check to see if there are any orders stored, then convert them to useable data and create an instance for each object.

### Tracking storage changes

You can track the storage event to notify you when the storage has been modified.

````JS
if (window.addEventListener) {
  window.addEventListener("storage", handle_storage, false);
} else {
  window.attachEvent("onstorage", handle_storage);
};
````