# Object-Oriented Programming, HTML Tables

## 03.15.21

----

## Domain Modeling

> Domain modeling is the process of creating a conceptual model in code for a specific problem. A model describes the
various entities, their attributes and behaviors, as well as the constraints that govern the problem domain. An entity
that stores data in properties and encapsulates behaviors in methods is commonly referred to as an object-oriented
model.

Modeling set the vocabulary for the rest of us to use. The idea is that through research, you can accurately describe
something with a set of attributes.

You create these objects with constuctors. These are functions that take values as their arguments.

````JS
let epicFailVideo = function(epicRating, hasAnimals) {
this.epicRating = epicRating;
this.hasAnimals = hasAnimals;
}

let parkourFail = new epicFailVideo (7, false);
let corgiFail = new epicFailVideo (4, true);

console.log(parkourFail);
console.log(corgiFail);
````

This returns to us an object instance of epicFailVideo that has two attributes, epicRating and hasAnimals. These can be
accessed with the dot notation.

````JS
console.log(parkourFail.epicRating);
````

This is useful if you want to make a lot of objects that have the same essential attributes or methods.

### Extending existing objects

Using the .prototype() method we can extend functionality for objects. Say we wanted to add a random number generator.

````JS
epicFailVideo.prototype.generateRandom = function(min, max) {
return Math.floor(Math.random() * (max - min * 1)) + min;
}

console.log(parkourFail.generateRandom(1, 5));
````

The prototype is best used when a lot of objects share the same method.

>While it certainly takes longer to locate a method on the prototype object, this technique is an established best
practice in JavaScript. When a prototype is shared between two or more objects, like it is for parkourFail and
corgiFail, those objects execute the same code when the generateRandom() method is called

Note: Math.round returns a value rounded to the nearest integer

- When modeling a single entity that'll have many instances, build self-contained objects with the same attributes and
behaviors.

- Model its attributes with a constructor function that defines and initializes properties.

- Model its behaviors with small methods that focus on doing one job well.

- Create instances using the new keyword followed by a call to a constructor function.

- Store the newly created object in a variable so you can access its properties and methods from outside.

- Use the this variable within methods so you can access the object's properties and methods from inside.

[Hamm, Sobol, and Hansen, 2018](https://github.com/codefellows/domain_modeling#domain-modeling)

----

## Tables, 6

A table is simply made using the 'tr', 'table' and 'td' tags:

````HTML
<table>
    <tr>
        <th></th>
        <th scope'col'> saturday</th>
        <th scope'col'> sunday</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th scope='row'> toronto sales: </th>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th scope='row'> seattle sales: </th>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th scope='row'> total sales: </th>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
    </tr>
</table>
````

each 'tr' repersents a row, and each 'td' is a column; 'td' stands for table data.

You can add headers with the 'th' tag. Use this to add names to rows.

Using the colspan attribute you can specify how man columns a data entry will take up. This is vice versa for the
rowspan attribute.

````HTML
<table>
    <tr>
        <th></th>
        <th scope'col'> saturday</th>
        <th scope'col'> sunday</th>
        <th scope'col'> monday</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th scope='row'> toronto sales: </th>
        <td>10</td>
        <td>20</td>
        <td>30</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th scope='row'> seattle sales: </th>
        <td>40</td>
        <td>50</td>
        <td>60</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th scope='row'> total sales: </th>
        <td colspan='3'>50</td>
        <td>70</td>
        <td rowspan='2'>90</td>
    </tr>
</table>
````

You can break down long tables semantically with the 'thead', 'tbody', and 'tfoot' tags:

````HTML
<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th></th>
            <th scope'col'> saturday</th>
            <th scope'col'> sunday</th>
            <th scope'col'> monday</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <th scope='row'> toronto sales: </th>
            <td>10</td>
            <td>20</td>
            <td>30</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <th scope='row'> seattle sales: </th>
            <td>40</td>
            <td>50</td>
            <td>60</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <th scope='row'> total sales: </th>
            <td colspan='3'>50</td>
            <td>70</td>
            <td rowspan='2'>90</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
    <tfoot>
        <th scope='row'> totals </th>
            <td>50</td>
            <td>70</td>
            <td>90</td>
    <tfoot>
</table>
````
----

## Functions, Methods, and Objects, 3

The 'new' instantiates a new object. You can also change, delete, and add properties:

````JS

thing.attrib = 'something new';

delete thing.attrub;

````

### Global objects

#### The math object

- Math.PI

- Math.round(n)

- Math.ceil()
        - Rounds *up* to the nearest integer

- Math.floor()
        -Rounds *down* to the nearest integer

- Math.random()
        - Generates a number between 1 (not inclusive) and 0 (inclusive)

#### Number Object

- isNaN(n)

- toFixed(n)
        - Rounds to a specified number of decimal places
        - Returns a string

- toPrecision()
        - Rounds to total number of places 
        - Returns a string

- toExponential()
        - Returns a string repersenting the number in exponential notation

#### String Object

- Length
        - This is a property

- charAt(index)

- indexOf('char')
        - Returns the index of the first recognized char

- lastIndexOf('char')
        - This is the reverse of indexOf()

- substring(i, j)
        - Returns the characters between two indexes

- split('char')
        - Splits the string each time a char is found

- trim()
        - Removes whitespace

- replace('string1', 'string2')

### The DOM (*D*ocument *O*bject *M*odel)

#### properties of the DOM

- document.title

- document.lastModified

- document.URL

- document.domain
        - Returns the domain of the current document

All the queries and createElement methods are a part of the DOM object.

### The Browser Object Model

#### properties of the window object

- window.innerHeight

- window.innerWidth

- window.XOffset
        - Returns the distance scrolled to the horizontally

- window.YOffset 
        - Returns the distancee scrolled vertically

- window.screenX
        - Get the location of the pointer horizontally

- window.screenY
        - Get the location of the pointer vertically

- window.location
        - Current URL of window object

- window.document
        - Reference to the document object (DOM)

- window.history
        - Reference to history object which contains details of the pages that have been viewed in that window or tab

- window.history.length
        - Get the length of the object history

- window.screen
        - Reference to screen object

- window.screen.width

- window.screen.height

#### methods of the window object

- window.alert()

- window.open(URL)
        - Opens a new browser window with URL if specified

- window.print()
        - Opens the print dialog box