# Computer Architecture and Logic

Notes from reading 06b: Computer Architecture and Logic (2.24.10)

----

## a computer: primary aspects

A computer has four major abilities: take input, store it, process it, and output it. In the past this was complicated and tedious. Old machines would take up entire buildings, but today we can do a lot of that stuff with what's in our pockets.

----

## binary and data

At the surface level--what humans see--the ones and zeros that control binary have been abstracted into legible code. This way humans can focus on making the code do what we want. Computers will just figure out how to connect the dots.

In their most basic form, binary repersents the flow of power: 0=off, 1=on. This comprises a bit: the smallest unit of in computation. Fundamentally, the relationship goes that the more bits you have the more complex information your can repersent.

## circuits and logic

There are a few simple forms of circuits, and they work logically (if this is this, then that). A "NOT" circuit takes a single input and returns its opposite. For example, one becomes off. "AND" circuits only return a certain signal is both inputs are the same. These form the basic logic gates, and these can be engineered to output highly complex information.

## memory and cpu

We learned earlier that a computer basically does four things: take input, store it, process it and output it. More specifically, an input device takes information from the world outside of the computer and converts it to binary. This is how the computer begins to understand and feel the world around us.

That information is store, and then processed on a central processing unit. As these things get smaller, electricity decreases the distances it has to travel to complete a calculation, so smaller equals faster.

At last, processed information is used to output. this could be anything from controlling the pixels on your screen, to moving robotic limbs, to positional data for 3D mills. There's immense scalability here.