# Node Ecosystem, TDD, CI/CD

June 14, 2021

## Describe array.map() in plain english

Array.map is a method. A method is an algorithm that's built onto an object in this case called an Array. The array is typically a list of values stored in sequence within memory.

Think of a vending machine, which is itself an abstract data type like an Array. After inserting money, or selecting the item, you get the item back with change. Now what's particular about this is that the vending machine isn't particular about how these processes are implemented.

Like a vending machine, Array's are an example of an abstract data type. Its operations are defined, there's no fuss about how or why you use them. Array.map() happens to be one of those methods.

Array.map()'s special function is to go over the items in the list, run some kind of algorithim for each one, then return a new list with the results.

## Array.reduce() in plain english

Now that we have a working definition of what a method is. We'll move to another of the Array's useful operations: array.reduce().

Similar to array.map, reduce travels over each element in the list and runs an algorithm on them; the express prupose of this is to reduce its elements into something else. The operative word here is *something else*.

What makes array.reduce distinct from other methods is that it's very loose about its output. It can be whatever type of data you want plain text, another data type, boolean, number, or etc..

Some useful advice, look both ways before using array.reduce(). Only try it as a last resort.

## Code snippets for Superagent()

```JS
const superagent = require('superagent');


// async && await
const getData = async () => {
  const response = superagent.get('http://localhost:3001/data');

  console.log(response);
}

// then()
const getMoreData = () => {
  superagent.get(/data)
    .then(res => {
      console.log(res);
    })
    .catch(err => {
      console.log(err.message)
    })
}
```

## Explain promises

Promises are operations that will fire later. They assist with the building of asynchronous and deferred computation. This allows you to prevent blocking requests or code.

## Are all callbacks asynchronous?

No, callbacks can be either asynchronous or synchronus. Typically, callbacks used in the handling of requests to outside services are asynchronous. Callbacks that are used by methods like array.forEach on the other hand are synchronous.
