# Express REST API

June 17th, 2021

## Review, Research, and Discussion

### 3 real world use cases where you'd want to change the request with custom middleware

1. If the request needed to be sterilized before getting into the database
2. Validating inputs
3. Translation of inputs and outputs between datatpes (JSON, XML)

### True or false is a route handler a middleware

False, a route handler is a handler not a route

### In what ways can a middleware function end the process and send data to the browser

A middleware could report error data, or terminate a transmission

### At what point in the request lifecycle can you “inject” middleware?

The middle, it's injected when the server sees a the request, or error, or hits a certain route. A middleware is listening for and event. Say you have a request to the server, you could log the headers and method before hitting the route; this happens regardless of if a route is hit. A middleware *can* be attached to a route, but the two are not necessarily linked. To expand for a second, you can specify a middleware to handle an error (i.e. listen for an error).

### What can cause express to error with “Request headers sent twice, cannot start a second response"

You might see this error if the request has already been completed, but some code is still working. Maybe after res.send has fired you try to reference it again.

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

> Middleware helps developers build applications more efficiently. It acts like the connective tissue between applications, data, and users [source](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/middleware/what-is-middleware).

| term | definition |
| --- | ---|
| Middleware | Middleware is a software that's created to add functionality outside of the common services and capabilities|
| Request Object | The request object repersents information about the http request|
| Response Object| The response object is contructed from the request object. It contains information and methods associated with the server's response itself|
| Application Middleware | This is middleware that is used at the application level; think of app.use(logger)|
| Routing Middleware | This refers to the context in which the middleware is used. In this case, middleware is attached to a router.|
| Test Driven Development | Test Driven Development refers to a development paradigm where development code is rigorously tested before becoming production code|
| Behavioral Testing | Behavioral testing refers to a testing paradigm where we test based on the expected behavior of our code |
