# Access Control (ACL)

June 23, 21

## Review, Research, and Discussion

`- When is Basic Authorization used vs. Bearer Authorization?`

Basic auth involves the sending of a username and password pair encoded in `base64`. This however is easily decoded, so it's best to use a bearer token as they're more secure.

You would typically use basic auth when initially creating credentials for a user. After credentials have been generated, a token can be used to access resources.

`- What does the JSON Web Token package do?`

The JWT package is used for signing (creating) tokens and verifying them.

`- What considerations should we make when creating and storing a SECRET?`

SECRETS should be totally private.

1. Do not store them in any public/semi-public format
2. Store them in persistent and private storage
3. Encrypt the secret with a private key
4. Do not persist the token.

## Vocabulary

- `encryption` is the process of converting information into secret codes. This process is called encoding and is used on plaintext.

- `tokens` are digitally signed artifacts used to prove that the user has been authenticated

- a `bearer` is the party which holds the token

- `secrets` are used to allow clients to authenticate with an authorization server

- `JSON Web Token` is an open, industry standard RFC 7519 method for representing claims securely between two parties

## Prepare and Preview

### [Role Based Access Control](https://youtu.be/C4NP8Eon3cA)

- Role Based Access Control is the practice of defining capabilities by role. For example, an admin can read, write, update, and delete, but a user is only allowed to read
  - roles can also be defined by job function. A payrol manager may have access to payroll information, but an average employee should not have the same accesss.

- Operate on the principle of `least previlege`. Only give permissions to the minimum resources necessary, so that resources remain secure.

### [5 Steps to Simple Role Based Access Control](https://www.csoonline.com/article/3060780/5-steps-to-simple-role-based-access-control.html)

> Attribute-based access control (ABAC) — ABAC, sometimes known as policy-based access control, can use a variety of attributes, including user department, time of day, location of access, type of access required, etc. to determine whether a user’s access request should be granted [(source)](https://www.csoonline.com/article/3060780/5-steps-to-simple-role-based-access-control.html).

#### **The 5 steps**

1. inventory your systems
2. analyze your workforce and create roles
3. assign roles
4. **_never_** make exceptions
5. audit

### [Wikipedia - RBAC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Role-based_access_control)

- RBAC is policy neutral
