# Event Driven Architecture

## review, research, and discussion

1. what is the difference between a FIFO and a standard queue?
    1. A fifo queue means first in first out, so order is preserved 
    1. fifo queues have lower throughput than standard queues
    1. fifo queues prevent duplicates

1. How can a server be assured a message was properly received
    1. wait for the sever to acknowledge the delivery, after a certain period of time... send again. Buffer or enqueue any missed messages

1. What classic design pattern is best represented by event driven programming?
    1. The server-observer pattern very closely represents the event-driven model as observers listen for events on the server.
  
1. How do you test an event driven system?
    1. You can test an event driven system with unit and end-to-end tests. The idea is that you shoot the system an event, and if it's output is what you expect, you're all good. Otherwise there's a problem.

## Vocab

1. FIFO queue
    1. first in first out, these queues maintain a specific order. The first element in will be the first element out. This is useful if the data received has an important order to follow

1. pub/sub
    1. the pub/sub pattern is a design pattern where publishers emit events, and subscribers listen. This goes two ways; publishers can be subscribers and vice versa.

## SNS vs SQS: whats the difference

1. SNS -> simple notification service
    1. Publish to a topic
    1. clients subscribe to a topic
    1. fan out, delivers to many subs

1. SQS -> simple queue service
    1. queueing service
    1. for single consumer

### Do *other systems* care about an event?

if yes, use SNS

### do *your system* care about an event

if yes, use SQS
