# Authentication 04.25.2021

## What is OAuth

- [SSO](https://www.csoonline.com/article/2115776/what-is-sso-how-single-sign-on-improves-security-and-the-user-experience.html) single sign-on

- 

> Oauth is an [open-standard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_standard) authorization protocol that describes how unrelated server and services can allow authenticated access to theri assets without actually sharing the initial, related, single logon credential.

OAuth has been around since before 2010, but only became open then.

An example of OAuth in use is when an unrelated server allows you to login with an account from another service.

I'm getting the feeling that this is a very important development.

- All services involved must adopt that same standard

- What's the difference between authorization and authentication? Is it about verficationa and allowing access?

The idea is that a user can use previous authentication to get authorized for use with other services.

> OAUTHorization

### How it works

0. The first website connects to the second website on behalf of the user, using OAuth, providing the user’s verified identity.

1. The second site generates a one-time token and a one-time secret unique to the transaction and parties involved.

2. The first site gives this token and secret to the initiating user’s client software.

3. The client’s software presents the request token and secret to their authorization provider (which may or may not be the second site).

4. If not already authenticated to the authorization provider, the client may be asked to authenticate. After authentication, the client is asked to approve the authorization transaction to the second website.

5. The user approves (or their software silently approves) a particular transaction type at the first website.

6. The user is given an approved access token (notice it’s no longer a request token).

7. The user gives the approved access token to the first website.

8. The first website gives the access token to the second website as proof of authentication on behalf of the user.

9. The second website lets the first website access their site on behalf of the user.

10. The user sees a successfully completed transaction occurring.

11. OAuth is not the first authentication/authorization system to work this way on behalf of the end-user. In fact, many authentication systems, notably Kerberos, work similarly. What is special about OAuth is its ability to work across the web and its wide adoption. It succeeded with adoption rates where previous attempts failed (for various reasons).

> OpenID is for humans logging into machines, OAuth is for machines logging into machines on behalf of humans.

## Authentication and authorization flows

- Authentication is who you are

- Authorization is what you can access

What are Client Secrets?

### Authorization flows

- Authorization Code Flow
  - Exchanges an Authorization code for a token

- Authorization Code Flow with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)
  - Authorization code flow, but more secure

- Implicit Flow with Form Post
  - Intended for public clients unable to store client secrets
  - Deprecated, but fast

- Hybrid Flow
  - Combines Authorization Code Flow and Implicit Flow
  - A token is immediately accessed while still allowing secure and safe retrieval of access

- Client Credentials Flow
  - The app is authenticated and authorized rather than the user

- Device Authorization Flow
  - For input constrained devices
  - The service asks to authorize the device

- Resource Owner Password Flow
  - Users provide credentials.
  - Not advised if redirect-flow is possible

## [Auth0 React for single page apps](https://auth0.com/docs/libraries/auth0-react)