# State and Props (04.13.21)

## State and Lifecycle

> [State is similar to props, but it is private and fully controlled by the component](https://reactjs.org/docs/state-and-lifecycle.html)

A state is used to allow the component to keep track of some of its own data. This is helpful if we want to change something about the component, say update its appearance or display input.

To implement state we first have to create a class.

````JS
class Clock extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {date: new Date()};
  }
````

In the constructor we __*initialize the state*__. Here, we're using the code snippet from the React documentation. We want to track time, so we initialze state with a Date object.

````JS
  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <h1>Hello, world!</h1>
        <h2>It is {this.state.date.toLocaleTimeString()}.</h2>
      </div>
    );
  }
}
````

Next we return that state.

````JS
ReactDOM.render(
  <Clock />,
  document.getElementById('root')
);
````

Finally, we render the whole thing. This however will just update once, and we want it to tick the hours. To do that we need lifecycle.

````JS
class Clock extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {date: new Date()};
  }

  componentDidMount() {
  }

  componentWillUnmount() {
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <h1>Hello, world!</h1>
        <h2>It is {this.state.date.toLocaleTimeString()}.</h2>
      </div>
    );
  }
}
````

Rendering the component for the first time is called **_mounting_**. Unmounting is the reverse; it's when we remove the component from the dom. You can see here we've defined two fuctions componentDidMount and componentWillUnmount. These are called **_lifecyle methods_**.

````JS
  componentDidMount() {
    this.timerID = setInterval(
      () => this.tick(),
      1000
    );
  }
````

The first of these **_lifecyle methods_** will run after the component mounts. In this case, we're starting the timer. We can use state to keep track of this timer.

````JS
  componentWillUnmount() {
    clearInterval(this.timerID);
  }
````

ComponentWillUnmount will clear the timer when the component unmounts (i.e. removed from the dom). This is to prevent unnecessary code from running when its not needed.

````JS
  tick() {
    this.setState({
      date: new Date()
    });
  }
````

The last element is to create a function that will update the state every second (1000ms). This will allow the [clock](https://codepen.io/gaearon/pen/amqdNA?editors=0010) to update every second.

### [Using State Correctly](https://reactjs.org/docs/state-and-lifecycle.html#using-state-correctly)

setState merges the object you provide with the current state, so it's imperative that we be careful about how its set. The best practice is to use a function which uses the previous state for calculation. like so:

````JS
// Correct
this.setState((state, props) => ({
  counter: state.counter + props.increment
}));
````

Multiple independent variables can be used to with setState. The merging is shallow, so the setState will only update the variables you specify.

>Neither parent nor child components can know if a certain component is stateful or stateless, and they shouldn’t care whether it is defined as a function or a class.

State is encapsulated inside of it's component, but it can pass state down to it's children This is what's called "top-down" or "unidirectional". Data flows from parent to child, like a waterfall; it never flows up.

>**_Note:_**\
A component with state is called stateful, and without is called stateless.

----

## Handeling Events

> Here, e is a synthetic event. React defines these synthetic events according to the W3C spec, so you don’t need to worry about cross-browser compatibility. React events do not work exactly the same as native events. See the [SyntheticEvent](https://reactjs.org/docs/events.html) reference guide to learn more.

There are only a few differences between React and Plain Old JavaScript when it comes to creating event listeners.

* You create them when the component is rendered
  * Generally there's no need to call addEventListener

* A component accepts a function rather than a string when adding a handler

* preventDefault must be called

Like POJO React doesn't bind 'this' by default, so you'll need to bind 'this' within the contructor:

````JS
class Toggle extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {isToggleOn: true};

    // This binding is necessary to make `this` work in the callback
    this.handleClick = this.handleClick.bind(this);
  }
}
````

----

## [Conditional Rendering](https://reactjs.org/docs/conditional-rendering.html)

Conditional rendering allows you to render only what you need. This is done by checking state.

````JS
function Greeting(props) {
  const isLoggedIn = props.isLoggedIn;
  if (isLoggedIn) {
    return <UserGreeting />;
  }
  return <GuestGreeting />;
}

ReactDOM.render(
  // Try changing to isLoggedIn={true}:
  <Greeting isLoggedIn={false} />,
  document.getElementById('root')
);
````

Here a message is shown only if the user is 'loggedIn', otherwise it shows a different message. Bu this can be shortened using operators

````JS
{unreadMessages.length > 0 &&
    <h2>
        You have {unreadMessages.length} unread messages.
    </h2>
}
````

This code snippet checks of unreadMessages, and returns either true or false. The && followed by an expression means that if the expression exists, it is true. Combined the two only render when the first condition is met.

Though it can be made even more slick with the use of a conditional operator ('?')

````JS
render() {
  const isLoggedIn = this.state.isLoggedIn;
  return (
    <div>
      {isLoggedIn
        ? <LogoutButton onClick={this.handleLogoutClick} />
        : <LoginButton onClick={this.handleLoginClick} />
      }
    </div>
  );
}
````

It reads as if isLoggedIn evaluates to true, render a logout button, else render a login button.

> boolean ? pass : fail

----

## React Developer Tools

>The React Devtools extension for Chrome and Firefox lets you inspect a React component tree with your browser’s developer tools.

To use it in codepen:

* Login

* Fork the pen

* Open debug mode
  * Change View
  * Debug mode

* Inspect the page

* Go to the components tab

----

## Bootstrap docs

````bash
npm install react-bootstrap bootstrap
````

This will install react-bootstrap as a module. You need only import it into your files now:

````JS
//imports Button component 
import {Button} from 'react-bootstrap'
````

A little css is necessary to get it running. Import it too:

````JS
import 'bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css';
````

From here you can import any components available to bootstrap. Just visit the [react-bootstrap](https://react-bootstrap.github.io/components/alerts/) docs and search.


----

## Netlify

> Netlify is an all-in-one platform for automating modern web projects. Replace your hosting infrastructure, continuous integration, and deployment pipeline with a single workflow. Integrate dynamic functionality like serverless functions, user authentication, and form handling as your projects grow.

<!--  -->