## Diversity in tech 04.29.2021

## When Women Stopped Coding

The number of women studying computer science flattened in 1984 then dropped coressponding to the prevalence of computers in the home.

These new computers were marketed almost exclusively to men and boys.

> Then she took her first intro class — and found that most of her male classmates were way ahead of her because they'd grown up playing with computers.

1. What occured during the same time as the beginning of the decline of women in computer science?

- Personal computers became more prevalent, and were marketed strictly to men and boys.

2. Why does it matter that males had been playing on computers growing up?

- Because they become more familiar with them. Males get more opportunities to learn how computers work, which gives them an advantage.

## Employee breakdown of key technology companies

1. What three take-a-ways do you have looking at this data?

- White men are over-repersented, people of color are (with the exception of Asian Americans) under-repersented in tech, on the whole companies could be a lot more diverse.

## Why diversity matters to your tech company

1. When are diversity efforts most successful?

- When they are driven by industry leaders.

2. Why do diverse companies perform better?

- Employees are able to focus more on creativity and innovation. 

3. Give an example of how a diverse company can serve a diverse user base or vise-versa.

- A diverse company will avoid the biases caused by over-repersentation, the company would be able to produce products that cater to larger audiences. On the other hand, marketing to a diverse costumer base means larger markets. Further, it means the company can benefit from the breadth of human experience and knowledge.
