# CRUD 04.28.21

## [Status Codes Based On REST Methods(Ploesser)](https://www.moesif.com/blog/technical/api-design/Which-HTTP-Status-Code-To-Use-For-Every-CRUD-App/)

- 100's = Informational codes, the header of the request has been recieved, and the server will try to comply

- 200's = Success codes, tells the user that the request was accepted 

- 300's = Redirection, the requested resource is no longer where it was expected. Issue a request to a new location.

- 400's = Client error, these repersent invalid requests to the server: incorrect input.

- 500's = Server errors, these are sent for overwhelmed servers, unreachable servers, and sometimes triggered exceptions from the client request.

1. What is status code 202?
  
- It means that the asynchronus request met the validation requirements

2. What is status code 308?

- Permanent redirect, use another URL to access the resource and don't use the current URL

3. What code would you use if an update didn't return data to the client?

- 204 No Content, it means your update didn't return any data.

4. What code would you use if a resource used to exist, but no longer does?

- 308 Permanent Redirect

5. What is the 'Forbidden' status code?

- 403 Forbidden, it means the client (authorized or not) doesn't have permission to access the resource

## [Build A REST API With Node.js, Express, & MongoDB - Quick (Web Dev Simplified)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCFbNIlppjAuEX4znoulh0Cw)

1. Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?

- When we deploy we want to use something other than the local host

2. What is middleware?

- Middleware is software that comes in the middle that adds services and capabilites  

3. What does app.use(express.json()) do?

- express.json() is a built-in middleware that parses incoming requests with JSON payloads.

4. What does the /:id mean in a route?

- The id is a parameter in the route that specifies the id of the resource we want to access

5. What is the difference beween PUT and PATCH?

- PUT updates all the information(deep). PATCH creates a shallow update that only updates the information provided in the request, not the whole document.

6. How do you make a default value in a schema?

- key: { type: String, default: 'default' }

7. What does a 500 error status code mean?

- It refers to an internal server error. The server is down, overwhelmed, or unreachable.

8. What is the difference between a status 200 and a status 201?

- 200 is the status code for an accepted request to a resource, 201 refers to the creation of a new resource