# Intorduction to React and Components

## 04.12.2021

----

## [React Tutorial](https://reactjs.org/tutorial/tutorial.html) 

> React is a declarative, efficient, and flexible JavaScript library for building user interfaces. It lets you compose complex UIs from small and isolated pieces of code called “components”.

A React component is composed of props (what you pass in), and returns a rendered chunk of html using the render method... sort of.

````JS
class ShoppingList extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <div className="shopping-list">
        <h1>Shopping List for {this.props.name}</h1>
        <ul>
          <li>Instagram</li>
          <li>WhatsApp</li>
          <li>Oculus</li>
        </ul>
      </div>
    );
  }
}
````

In this example we're adding (extending) to a class, which is an object prototype. We are creating a subclass: a child of another class. Here, we're adding a subclass to React.Component which *renders* a React element. ShoppingList is a React component class. Inside ot the render method is the JSX we want to display on our page. [JSX](https://www.w3schools.com/react/react_jsx.asp) stands for JavaScript XML and allows you to write HTML in JavaScript.

You'll also notice that JS is wrapped in curly braces within the JSX.

````JS
class square extends React.Component {
    render() {
        return (
            <button className="square" onClick={() => {alert('click'); }}>
                {this.props.value}
            </button>
        );
    }
}
````

This particular *React component* renders a button with an event listener for click. Each button will have as their text content *this.props.value*, which in this case refers to the order in which they were rendered (0, 1,2,3 and so on).

More specifically, we wrote the event listener because we want to change the state of the button, and we'll add a state with a constructor:

````JS
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {
      value: null,
    };
  }
````

> __Note__
<br>
In JavaScript classes, you need to always call super when defining the constructor of a subclass. All React component classes that have a constructor should start with a super(props) call.

The [super](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/super) keyword is used to access and call function on an object's parent. In this case we want to acess the props passed in to our parent: Square.


### Lifting State Up

It's best practice to have the components retrieve state from their parents rather than each component containing a state. This is less error prone.

To do this we add a contsructor to the Board component.

````JS
class Board extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {
      squares: Array(9).fill(null),
    };
  }
}
````

We create an array that contains the state of each button. Then this gets passed down to the children (the buttons).

````JS
class Square extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <button
        className="square"
        onClick={() => this.props.onClick()}
      >
        {this.props.value}
      </button>
    );
  }
}
````

>__Note__
<br>
We move the contents of the button tag, or template, down to the next line for readability.

Those children then access the parent to check their state; this is how they change their content (show the 'X').

Next we create an event handler for the children to use. Here, it is called 'onClick', but handleClick() hasn't been defined yet. You'll break if you don't define it. 

````JS
renderSquare(i) {
    return (
      <Square
        value={this.state.squares[i]}
        onClick={() => this.handleClick(i)}
      />
    );
}
````

The handleClick() function creates an immutable copy of the array containing all the states. The goal of immutability here is to prevent data corruption and ease debugging.

> Detecting changes in immutable objects is considerably easier. If the immutable object that is being referenced is different than the previous one, then the object has changed.

The idea is to create a copy of the data, *then* replace the old data with the new. Check it out:

````JS
handleClick(i) {
    const squares = this.state.squares.slice();
    squares[i] = 'X';
    this.setState({squares: squares});
}
````

Slice() creates a copy of the state array, then we make a change to it and assign the new value. The object here is to keep the underlying data unchanged. This will allow use to access the data later if, say, we wanted to access an early point in history.

----

## [Hello World](https://reactjs.org/docs/hello-world.html)

React is composed of elements and components. Each one is reuseable, so you can make some complex and scalable apps.

----

## [Introducing JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html)

As we mentioned above, JSX stands for JavaScript and XML. It's what allows us to write html in javascript. More specifically, JSX is a syntax extension of JavaScript.

>Question: what is state?

----

## [Rendering Elements](https://reactjs.org/docs/rendering-elements.html)

Rendering new elements is built into the react library. 

````JS
function tick() {
  const element = (
    <div>
      <h1>Hello, world!</h1>
      <h2>It is {new Date().toLocaleTimeString()}.</h2>
    </div>
  );
  ReactDOM.render(element, document.getElementById('root'));
}

setInterval(tick, 1000);
````

Here, 'ReactDOM.render(element, document.getElementById('root'));' adds the new React element to the DOM.

>__Note__
<br>
In practice, most React apps only call ReactDOM.render() once. In the next sections we will learn how such code gets encapsulated into [stateful components](https://reactjs.org/docs/state-and-lifecycle.html).
<br><br>
We recommend that you don’t skip topics because they build on each other.

----

## [Components and props](https://reactjs.org/docs/components-and-props.html)

Components accept (**prop**)erties and return React elements

````JS
function Welcome(props) {
  return <h1>Hello, {props.name}</h1>;
}
````

This is a *function component*, which is distinct from a class component. Literally, they are JavaScript fucntions.

Props are read only. A React component should never change its props. This is the difference between *pure* and *impure* components. The latter meaning a component that doesn't change its props. React is pretty flexible here, but the strict rule is that all components should be pure.
<!--  -->