# Functional Programming 04.24.2021

## [Concepts of functional programming in JS](https://medium.com/the-renaissance-developer/concepts-of-functional-programming-in-javascript-6bc84220d2aa)

A function is pure if

- It returns the same result if given the same arguments

- it does not cause any observable side effects

```JS
let PI = 3.14;

const calculateArea = (radius, pi) => radius * radius * pi;

calculateArea(10, PI); 
```

Values used in a function should always be passed in as parameters.

Function become unpure if they rely on external documents, or if they use random numbers

### Immutability

Data which is immutable never changes its state.

### Referential transperancy

A function is referentially transperant if given the same parameters, you recieve the same result

> pure functions + immutable data = referential transparency

Functions as __*first-class*__ entities can:

- refer to it from constants and variables

- pass it as a parameter to other functions

- return it as result from other functions

### Higher order functions

Higher order functions are ones that take in one or more functions and output a function.

> Another way to get the total amount is to compose map and reduce. What do I mean by that? We can use map to transform the shoppingCart into a collection of amount values, and then just use the reduce function with sumAmount function.

```JS
const getAmount = (order) => order.amount;
const sumAmount = (acc, amount) => acc + amount;

function getTotalAmount(shoppingCart) {
  return shoppingCart
    .map(getAmount)
    .reduce(sumAmount, 0);
}

getTotalAmount(shoppingCart); // 120
```

---

## [Refactoring](https://dev.to/healeycodes/refactoring-javascript-for-performance-and-readability-with-examples-1hec)

Good code lives at the intersection of comprehension and speed.

What is a map?

Adhere to single-use principle. A function should only do one thing.

> It's important to get your code right the first time because in many businesses there isn't much value in refactoring. Or at least, it's hard to convince stakeholders that eventually uncared for codebases will grind productivity to a halt.